

Review of "Outlier Detection in Sensor Networks" by Bo Sheng, Qun Li, Weizhen Mao, and Wen Jin.

This paper defines a process to identify outliers, data points that are very different from each other, in an effort to help pinpoint the accurate location of weakening parts, especially in the early stage of any problem in sensor networks. The main idea of this project is to efficiently detect outliers in a large-scale database by using a histogram-based method to extract hints about the data distribution, filter out the non-outliers, and identify the potential outliers within a certain range. The efficiency of this approach resigns in the following goals. First, sensor data distribution approximation and communication cost reduction under the two different detection schemes. Second, benefit estimation of the communication cost reduction through their histogram refinement technique for critical portion of data distribution. Lastly, the ability to extend their structure to detect on-line outliers as well as to improve mining issues such as data classification and clustering. 

The goal of this paper is to use a histogram-based method to detect outliers in a large-scale database to reduce the communication cost. This can also be known as global outliers since they do not only focus on the local outliers detection. I found this topic to be relevant in this day and age, and the reason why is because the use of the World Wide Web is continuously increasing. The web is a very useful tool to use as a source for prediction; however, there are often anomalies or outliers that have not yet been studied. I believe that using a similar structure as that proposed in “Outliers Detection in Sensor Networks,” can help data miners to make better use of the data that is being generated daily on the World Wide Web server. Implementing their method by collecting hints about the data, such as on the web, would act as a filter to identify potential outliers and unnecessary data. This would also be a perfect method for data transmission while achieving information extraction from a large amount of data distribution over the network. A good example of this could be personal emails accounts in which we constantly receive Spam emails from numerous users that are trying to target us, hoping we fall prey to their marketing ploys. In Histogram-based method, data are mainly governed by parameters other than locality, which makes it a good approach in the example mentioned above. I find this paper to be of great relevance as networks are growing and the amount of data in sensors are increasing with the times. A more efficient approach is going to be needed in the future to transfer a large amount of data over a network and being able to extract out anomalies in the data without increasing the communication cost. The value of the idea given in the paper may not be as valuable as it should be in today's times, but I believe that soon users will start looking for different alternatives to improve data transportation and communication cost. The idea proposed by this paper is comprehensive and interesting as it proposes a less expensive method to detect data anomalies in a large-scale database during transmission. At times the paper got to be very technical to a point in which I had to read it over again in order for me to comprehend the meaning. I understand the rationale for explaining the technical aspects of the project. However, I also feel that it can be difficult for a reader to follow the paper and take away the important message or objectives set forth by the author. 

Throughout the reading of this paper, I noticed how they focused on the issue of detecting data outliers towards global information and distribution. I could not help asking myself how could I use this information as a strategy for my project. My idea of having a medical diagnosis database is based on collecting data mostly from the web. Therefore, using their strategy to disregard outliers when clustering and, or, classifying the data for diagnosis purpose could be of great use. I have previously worked with histograms and I knew they could be used to identify anomalies in the data, but this paper helped me gain a better understanding of how it could actually reduce the communication cost, which I did not quite understand prior to reading this paper. However, one thing puzzled me; I was unable to understand the complex discussion of transforming the data from a histogram to data during transmission. This sounds like an intricate issue to me and I could not find anything in the paper to help elucidate this process of transforming a histogram to data.
